DOC Add user guide for permutation_test_score (#18055)
scikit-learn/scikit-learn: doc/modules/cross_validation.rst

is the fraction of permutations for which the score obtained is better
that the score obtained using the original data.

A low p-value provides evidence that the dataset contains real dependency
between features and labels and the classifier was able to utilize this
to obtain good results. A high p-value could be due to a lack of dependency
between features and labels (there is no difference in feature values between
the classes) or because the classifier was not able to use the dependency in
the data. In the latter case, using a more appropriate classifier that
is able to utilize the structure in the data, would result in a low
p-value.

Cross-validation provides information about how well a classifier generalizes,
specifically the range of expected errors of the classifier. However, a
classifier trained on a high dimensional dataset with no structure may still
perform well on cross-validation.
:func:`~sklearn.model_selection.permutation_test_score` provides information
on whether the classifier has found a real class structure and can help in
evaluating the performance of the classifier.

Finally, it is important to note that this test has been shown to produce low

> p-values even if there is only weak structure in the data

Reviewer: or as soon as the classifier utilizes _some_ structure in the data.

Author: Fair point!

Cross validation iterators can also be used to directly perform model
selection using Grid Search for the optimal hyperparameters of the
model. This is the topic of the next section: :ref:`grid_search`.

.. _permutation_test_score:

Permutation test score
======================

:func:`~sklearn.model_selection.permutation_test_score` offers another way
to evaluate the performance of classifiers. It provides a permutation-based
p-value, which represents how likely an observed performance of the
classifier would be obtained by chance. The null hypothesis in this test is

> that the features and labels are independent.

Reviewer 2: The null hypothesis is that the classifier fails leverage any statistical dependency between X and y to make correct predictions on left out data.

Author: Hmm the [Ojala and Garriga paper](http://www.jmlr.org/papers/volume11/ojala10a/ojala10a.pdf) says:
> The hypothesis assumes that the data X and the labels y are independent, that is, p(X, y) = p(X)p(y).
(pg 1839)

but you're right that we do use performance of the classifier on left out data for our null distribution. But by permuting the labels we do remove any dependency between X and y - so I think this should be part of of the null hypothesis.

Reviewer 2: I think that generating random X and y with broken dependency is just a way to ensure that "the classifier fails to leverage any statistical dependency between X and y to make correct predictions on left out data."

The statistical test is not a test about the data alone, it's a test about how well the model can (or cannot) extract useful things from the data.

Author: Yes, that makes sense, thanks!

:func:`~sklearn.model_selection.permutation_test_score` generates a null
distribution by calculating `n_permutations` different permutations of the
data. In each permutation the labels are randomly shuffled, thereby removing
any dependency between the features (data) and the labels. The p-value output

> is the fraction of permutations for which the score obtained is better
> that the score obtained using the original data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is the fraction of permutations for which the average cross-validation score
obtained by the model is better than the cross-validation score obtained by
the model using the original data.
```

A low p-value provides evidence that the dataset contains real dependency
between features and labels and the classifier was able to utilize this
to obtain good results. A high p-value could be due to a lack of dependency
between features and labels (there is no difference in feature values between
the classes) or because the classifier was not able to use the dependency in
the data. In the latter case, using a more appropriate classifier that
is able to utilize the structure in the data, would result in a low
p-value.

Cross-validation provides information about how well a classifier generalizes,
specifically the range of expected errors of the classifier. However, a
classifier trained on a high dimensional dataset with no structure may still

> perform well on cross-validation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
perform better than expected on cross-validation just by chance. This can
typically happen with small datasets with less than a few hundreds of samples.
```

Author: Could this phenomena (good results on data with low samples, high features and no structure) be called overfitting?

:func:`~sklearn.model_selection.permutation_test_score` provides information
on whether the classifier has found a real class structure and can help in
evaluating the performance of the classifier.

Finally, it is important to note that this test has been shown to produce low
p-values even if there is only weak structure in the data because in the
corresponding permutated datasets there is absolutely no structure. This
test is therefore only able to show when the model reliably outperforms
random guessing.

.. topic:: Examples

>     * :ref:`sphx_glr_auto_examples_feature_selection_plot_permutation_test_for_classification.py`

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a note on computational performance stating that `permutation_score_test` is a brute force method that internally fits `(n_permutations + 1) * n_cv_iter` models and is therefore only tractable with small datasets for which fitting an individual model is very fast.

To get reliable results `n_permutations` is typically larger than 100 and `n_cv_iter` typically lie between 3 and 10.
